---
layout: post
title: "Workflow"
date: 2016-07-20 12:00:00
categories: os workflow
---

DISCLAIMER
My rails project envolved into in-company thing so further development is
in the private repo, sorry folks!

Workflow

> consists of an orchestrated and repeatable pattern of business activity
> enabled by the systematic organization of resources into processes that
> transform materials, provide services, or process information.
> It can be depicted as a sequence of operations, declared as work of a person
> or group, an organization of staff, or one or more simple or
> complex mechanisms.
(via Wikipedia)

In other words what tools I use and how on a daily basis as a developer?

I would like to tell you that I have abandoned GUI and mouse and touchpad
and I work only in terminal... but it would be a lie - sorry

I use GUI and mouse because in some cases they are more convinent and more
easy to use.

I will focus on my machine with linux. Programs that I use most ofen:

- guake terminal with oh-my-zsh
- git
- vim
- tmux
- irb / rails console
- tmate
- build in linux programs like grep, find
- chrome browser
- aliases - for every command I use ofen - alias!

And that's actually it.
Guake terminal - it improve my workflow with 100% and with oh-my-zsh and tmux combo
it is an absolute killer!
I use GUI and mouse but most of my work when I'm developing (90%) is in terminal.
I can easily search for files edit them move through directories, fire up
automatic tests, launch servers, colaborate with others with tmate, push, pull
and most of all write code fast and efficient. I'm switching between terminal and
browser with one push of a button.
For dealing with databases I use GUI programs - sorry, but I have that need to
see data in some nice form. For them is obviously use mouse too. It is quicker
and more convinent to "click-it-out" then write query by hand every time.
For development enviroment db I ofen use CLI, but for production and large scale
databases GUI is a must for me.
But only for databases, for instance I hate GUI apps for git.

That is my way, it is not perfect but I'm trying to improve it bit by bit every time.
Maybe even some day I will abandon GUI and mouse and be left only with darkness of
my terminal.
